= Background =

Radio propagation analysis describes how radio signals move through a given area.  Given a set of known radio equipment and two specific locations, we can model the environmental conditions between those points to determine if successful radio communication is possible.

libprop was written by <a href="http://jsharkey.org/">Jeffrey Sharkey</a> while a Graduate Research Assistant at the <a href="http://www.coe.montana.edu/wti/">Western Transportation Institute</a> at <a href="http://montana.edu/">Montana State University</a>.

= Data Sources =

The USGS is an excellent source of digitized terrain data, and they continue to improve data quality and resolution as technology allows.  Currently they are offering 10-meter resolution data for the entire United States, which is what libprop usually expects.

 * <a href="http://seamless.usgs.gov/">USGS National Map Seamless Server</a>

libprop can accept data in either the GridFloat or BIL (integer) formats from USGS, and it understands native lat/long mapping and Albers projection.  For terrain data we recommend using "<a href="http://seamless.usgs.gov/products/9arc.php">National Elevation Dataset (NED) 1/9 Arc Second</a>" data source, which provides 10-meter resolution.  We also recommend the "<a href="http://www.landfire.gov/NationalProductDescriptions23.php">Landfire Existing Vegetation Cover</a>" and "<a href="http://www.landfire.gov/NationalProductDescriptions22.php">Landfire Existing Vegetation Height</a>" data sources which provides vegetation type and height information.  Optionally, we can accept the "<a href="http://seamless.usgs.gov/products/nlcd01.php">National Land Cover Dataset 2001</a>" data source which provides land-use classifications.  Our algorithm doesn't use this data by default.

